Add recipe for cert manager DNS challenge issue (#276)
giantswarm/handbook: content/docs/support-and-ops/ops-recipes/troubleshooting-cert-manager.md

---
title: "Cert manager Troubleshooting"
owner:
- https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-bigmac
classification: public
---

# Table of Contents
1. [DNS01 challenge issues](#dns01)

## DNS01 challenge issues

> When there is a certificate not becoming ready, it is often due to the DNS/HTTP challenge not being completed. Check the cert manager controller logs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When there is a certificate not becoming ready, it is often due to the ACME DNS01/HTTP-01 challenge not being completed. Check the cert manager controller logs:
```

```bash
stern cert-manager -s 1m -n kube-system -i CERT_NAME
```

In case you see errors like:

```
E0828 14:04:53.727973       1 sync.go:190] "cert-manager/challenges: propagation check failed" err="NS ns-1536.awsdns-00.co.uk.:53 returned REFUSED for _acme-challenge.my-app.gig3-prd.aws.cps.xxx.com." resource_name="my-app-cert-h8qxc-3214626457-1657644764" resource_namespace="aaa-prod-application" resource_kind="Challenge" resource_version="v1" dnsName="my-app.gig3-prd.aws.cps.xxx.com" type="DNS-01"
```

> This is related to the DNS challenge not being successful. We found thanks to this article](https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/error-renewing-certificate-from-le-ns-returned-refused-for-acme-challenge/174132/1) when there was incident that point us to the right direction. The problem is due to cert manager base image which might use musl libc library which has a bug in it (ipv4/ipv6 resolution issue).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is related to the DNS challenge not being successful. We found thanks to this [article](https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/error-renewing-certificate-from-le-ns-returned-refused-for-acme-challenge/174132/1) when there was incident that point us to the right direction. The problem is due to cert manager base image which might use musl libc library which has a bug in it (ipv4/ipv6 resolution issue).
```

> This is related to the DNS challenge not being successful. We found thanks to this article](https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/error-renewing-certificate-from-le-ns-returned-refused-for-acme-challenge/174132/1) when there was incident that point us to the right direction. The problem is due to cert manager base image which might use musl libc library which has a bug in it (ipv4/ipv6 resolution issue).

Reviewer: IMO cert-manager uses distroless debian https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/blob/master/hack/latest-base-images.sh#L29

Author: yeah you are right, it is a problem but not related to musl

> This is related to the DNS challenge not being successful. We found thanks to this [article](https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/error-renewing-certificate-from-le-ns-returned-refused-for-acme-challenge/174132/1) when there was incident that point us to the right direction. The problem is due to cert manager base image which might use musl libc library which has a bug in it (ipv4/ipv6 resolution issue).

Author: ```suggestion
This is related to the DNS challenge not being successful. We found, thanks to this [article](https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/error-renewing-certificate-from-le-ns-returned-refused-for-acme-challenge/174132/1), when there was an incident that pointed us to the right direction. The problem is related to DNS client handling when using both IPv4 and IPv6
```

To fix it we applied the following configuration to the cert manager app. If there is not `userConfig.configMap` defined already in the app manifest, you can add it like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: application.giantswarm.io/v1alpha1
kind: App
metadata:
  name: cert-manager
  namespace: ORG-NAMESPACE
spec:
  ...
  userConfig:
    configMap:
      name: "CLUSTER_ID-user-values"
      namespace: "ORG-NAMESPACE"
```

Inside the configmap you can set the following values:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
data:
  values: |
    extraArgs:

>       - --dns01-self-check-nameservers=1.1.1.1:53,8.8.8.8:53

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - --dns01-recursive-nameservers=1.1.1.1:53,8.8.8.8:53
```

      - --dns01-recursive-nameservers-only=true
```

> When you apply this configuration, the cert manager will roll out and you can check the logs again to see if the issue is resolved. It is recommended to kick the certificate to renew after the rollout to see if the issue is resolved. User [cmctl](https://github.com/cert-manager/cmctl/) tool to renew the certificate:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you apply this configuration, the cert manager will roll out and you can check the logs again to see if the issue is resolved. It is recommended to kick the certificate to renew after the rollout to see if the issue is resolved. Use [cmctl](https://github.com/cert-manager/cmctl/) tool to renew the certificate:
```

```bash
cmctl renew -n MY_APP_NS MY_APP_CERT_NAME
```

> It should make the trick. If not, please reach out to the team bigmac for further investigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It should do the trick. If not, please reach out to the team bigmac for further investigation.
```
